NOTES/Setup.md, before:

# Setup a .NET Project (VS Code)

- Download SDK from https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download
  - note: you can have multiple versions installed simultaneously
- Download both the RUNTIME and the SDK (left side of screen at https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/7.0)
- Full source code (for checking for errors) is [HERE](https://github.com/TryCatchLearn/DatingApp)
- run `dotnet --info` to see installed information
- NOTE: if you need to use an earlier installed version of the SDK you can create a global.json file to specify this.
- Good extension for VS Code: C# devkit
  ms-dotnettools.csdevki

### Useful commands

- `dotnet -h` - help and different commands documentation
- `dotnet new list` - list of templates of projects you can create

## Terms

- SOLUTION: a container for C# .NET projects

## Setup a web api

- `dotnet new sln` to create a solution file for the project
- `dotnet new webapi -n API`
  - in .NET 8 you need to add `--use controllers` after API
- Add the API project into the solution: `dotnet sln add API`
  - run `dotnet sln list` to see the projects in the solution

## Running the API

- cd into the project (`cd API`)
- `dotnet run`
  - listening port is randomly selected - need to update launch settings (see below)
- use `dotnet watch` to get hot reloading

## Launch Settings

- When executing dotnet run, the settings that are used are in `/Properties/launchSettings.json`
- Typically you want to set `launchBrowser` to false
- Swagger is enabled by default: `localhost:{port}/swagger/index.html`
- optionally you can remove `launchUrl` field since we don't want to launch the browser when starting the API
- You can set a standard port for your API: `"applicationUrl": "http://localhost:5000;https://localhost:5001",`
  - run on http and https (5000 and 5001)
- You can optionally remove the other https and IIS Express blocks so you only have http block
  - we just need a single profile to run over the ports specified

### appsettings.json

- Can use configuration info in this file in code at runtime
  - `<project>\appsettings.Development.json`
  - Update logging to information: `"Microsoft.AspNetCore": "Information"` to get more info while developing

### global.json
- If you need to make a project with an older dotnet sdk version or to specify the version explicitly, create a global.json
- `dotnet new globaljson`

### Program.cs

- Entry point to application
- Can add services in the top part
- The bottom part is the HTTP request pipeline
  - Can use middleware to manipulate the http requests and responses here. i.e. `app.UseAuthorization();`

## Troubleshooting

- HTTPS not working (if you go to the port and get a certificate expired error)
  - run `dotnet dev-certs https --trust`

Commit message:

add note about dotnet watch - use --no-hot-reload flag

NOTES/Setup.md, after:

# Setup a .NET Project (VS Code)

- Download SDK from https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download
  - note: you can have multiple versions installed simultaneously
- Download both the RUNTIME and the SDK (left side of screen at https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/7.0)
- Full source code (for checking for errors) is [HERE](https://github.com/TryCatchLearn/DatingApp)
- run `dotnet --info` to see installed information
- NOTE: if you need to use an earlier installed version of the SDK you can create a global.json file to specify this.
- Good extension for VS Code: C# devkit
  ms-dotnettools.csdevki

### Useful commands

- `dotnet -h` - help and different commands documentation
- `dotnet new list` - list of templates of projects you can create

## Terms

- SOLUTION: a container for C# .NET projects

## Setup a web api

- `dotnet new sln` to create a solution file for the project
- `dotnet new webapi -n API`
  - in .NET 8 you need to add `--use controllers` after API
- Add the API project into the solution: `dotnet sln add API`
  - run `dotnet sln list` to see the projects in the solution

## Running the API

- cd into the project (`cd API`)
- `dotnet run`
  - listening port is randomly selected - need to update launch settings (see below)
- use `dotnet watch` to get hot reloading

## Launch Settings

- When executing dotnet run, the settings that are used are in `/Properties/launchSettings.json`
- Typically you want to set `launchBrowser` to false
- Swagger is enabled by default: `localhost:{port}/swagger/index.html`
- optionally you can remove `launchUrl` field since we don't want to launch the browser when starting the API
- You can set a standard port for your API: `"applicationUrl": "http://localhost:5000;https://localhost:5001",`
  - run on http and https (5000 and 5001)
- You can optionally remove the other https and IIS Express blocks so you only have http block
  - we just need a single profile to run over the ports specified

### appsettings.json

- Can use configuration info in this file in code at runtime
  - `<project>\appsettings.Development.json`
  - Update logging to information: `"Microsoft.AspNetCore": "Information"` to get more info while developing

### Hot reloading with watch doesn't work well
- use `dotnet watch --no-hot-reload`
  - since watch is not reliable with hot reload (causing confusing bugs)
  - Just uses watch with file watcher and will work more reliably when making simple code updates. Will restart itself with another dotnet run on changes instead of hot reloading (a little slower but more reliable)

### global.json
- If you need to make a project with an older dotnet sdk version or to specify the version explicitly, create a global.json
- `dotnet new globaljson`

### Program.cs

- Entry point to application
- Can add services in the top part
- The bottom part is the HTTP request pipeline
  - Can use middleware to manipulate the http requests and responses here. i.e. `app.UseAuthorization();`

## Troubleshooting

- HTTPS not working (if you go to the port and get a certificate expired error)
  - run `dotnet dev-certs https --trust`
